# Analytical solution for the dynamic behavior of erbium-doped fiber amplifiers with constant population inversion along the fiber

# (Simulate EDFAs Dynamic)

This page was created to host and distribute under a [creative commons](https://creativecommons.org/) license a Simulink-MATLAB code developed to simulate EDFAs dynamic behavior using the analytical approach introduced in:

A.A. Rieznik and H.L. Fragnito, “Analytical solution for the dynamic behavior of erbium-doped fiber amplifiers with constant population inversion along the fiber,” Journal of the Optical Society of America B (JOSA B), Vol. 21, No. 10, 1732 -1739 (2004).  [Abstract](https://www.osapublishing.org/josab/abstract.cfm?id=81219)  pdf

This code solves numerically the coupled first order equations (11) and (13) in our article, and was used to generate the graphs in Figure 4.

## Installation and Running the code

The EDFA response to a drop operation shown in Figure 4 can be generated by simply opening and running the Simulink-Matlab code contained in this folder. For the correct visualization of the channels dynamic response, double-click the little boxes seen as oscilloscopes and click the button “auto scale” after running the code.
By double-clicking the “solver’ box, and the boxes appearing inside it, you can open them and study their structure. All the codes are quite self-understandable, so we hope you can follow the algorithm, and use it for educational or research purposes. You can also change the simulation parameters to investigate how they affect the EDFA dynamic response.
All these codes were saved using Matlab 7.0 and Windows XP, so we are not sure whether it will work properly when using earlier versions or others operational systems or hardware.

## Contact

The author of these codes is [Andrés Anibal Rieznik](http://www.freeopticsproject.org/Andres.html). If you have inquiries about the codes, do not hesitate to send me an e-mail. It would be a pleasure to answer you and help to improve these codes according to your research or educational purposes.
